In the last video we got the three applications started.
Now to implement the micro frontend approach, we need to be going over a bit of theory of module federation.
Now what is Module Federation?
Module Federation is a plugin that's been provided by Part five that helps us to implement the concept
of micro frontend.
So let's see how this works.
Let's suppose we have the application one and application two.
Both of the applications are running on different ports, as you can see here.
One is on 3000, the second one is on the 3001.
Now what are the basic configuration that we need to be doing for the Module Federation to work?
Well, we need to be implementing two very important properties here.
The first property is going to be called as the exposes property.
The second property is called as the remote exposes, as the name suggests, is thing that I want to
be exposing some modules from this application so that other people or other applications can consume
it.
Now, for example, we have like module one, module two, three and four, and this has been exposed
using this exposed object.
Now on the other hand, on the consumer side, we have the application two which has the remote object.
Now remote basically does.
Hey, these are the application from that I'm going to be pulling up component.
So for example, one of the remotes has been setup we had as application one.
And in this we actually specify localhost, 3000 slash remote entry, Node.js.
And similarly, we also have another application too in which you can be having the other port number
on which that application is running.
So it can be pulling up component from there as well.
Now, one interesting fact to note we heard is we do not really need to be telling each and every component
that we are going to be using.
So, for example, this might be exposing four components or maybe just one component.
We are just going to be mentioning this same line in either cases.
Okay.
So that's great.
Now, one question that might be coming in your head is what is remote entry?
We have never used something like this.
Right now when we re users exposes or the Marine Federation plug in, we're going to be exposing a special
file called as the Remote Entry Dodgers Remote and reads basically references all the components that
are there in this application.
So basically this application to goes to this remote entry Dodgers and remote entry Dodgers helps us
to figure out, okay, this component needs to be loaded.
So it sort of pulls design over here and returns it back to the application, too.
So this is sort of how it works in the background.
Similarly, we also need to be naming this application.
So for example, we have this application one, so we need to be giving it appropriate names.
We are going to be seeing that shortly.
So we are going to be referencing those application name in the application too.
So we are going to be referencing this applications using the application name.
So it's going to be more like we are going to be having whereas maybe app one actor it and then localhost
3000 and then the remote entry Dodgers.
So it says that okay there's going to be an application called application one this is going to be defined
or here basically.
So we are going to be having another property called as file name and in here will see app one.
And this is basically saying that the my name is app one and I'm exposing all this components.
So this is on a very high level how things are going to be working.
So the main concept to remember all here is this remote entry dodgers.
Most of the times, if we're getting error, that we know the module is not found or cannot be accessed.
Make sure that this file is being exposed properly from your application.
Okay.
So that might seem a little odd because we have not done all of this so far in practical.
So I'm just going to be taking a short break and implementing all this concept in the application that
we just got started on our computer.